So that all of the big ones are held in Sabisa in that
era? And then the big ones would be in Sabisa. It's
the biggest building on campus. And the easiest to
clear out and a good floor. And didn't have air
conditioning in those days, and so you just let
them go. You didn't know any difference, so it
didn't matter. Do you remember any... Any
escapades, any real good stories that had
anything to do with the dance? That had anything to
do with the dance? Anything that somebody did
after a dance? No.
I guess we were somewhat normal even for the day
then. You see how far you get with the girl. Usually
not very.
It was expected there was a higher, I think that
more was expected of you in those days than there is
today. There were greater expectations of
gentlemanliness.
There was no hesitation for mothers to send their
daughters to College Station because
they're not going to come back pregnant. They're
not going to go down and get drunk out of their mind
because that doesn't happen at College Station.
Who chaperoned? Who policed? Was there anybody
walking around the room checking on behavior?
There may have been. I wasn't aware they were not
visible. Did you all have alcohol in Sevesa? No. We
might have taken some in. It was not supposed to
happen, but I'm sure that it did. Do you remember
anybody getting embarrassingly drunk? Oh, yes.
Oh, yes. At one time or another, all of us probably
got embarrassingly drunk. Maybe more as a
freshman than later on. And I think that's
probably still true in university. Freshman,
fresh out of home, didn't know how to handle it, and
he stays drunk far more than a junior or senior.
Right. Now, in your case, you started dating this
special young lady when? What
year? 1950. When you were a junior? 1951. 1951, we
started dating. Did you by chance propose to her or
get engaged at an Aggie event? No, it happened up
here in Fort Worth. And we got married in 52. And
she...
We first lived on the campus. See, I was supposed to
graduate in 52, but I had a bad habit of running out
of money and not being able to keep going to school.
So I would lay out for a semester in the summer, and I
could earn enough money to go back to school for a
semester. So where did y'all live when you were
young married? The first place that we lived was in
a garage apartment in Bryan, over near the lake by
the golf course. Somewhere in there, off of one of
those streets, we lived in a garage apartment. And
then, the next time we were down, we lived on
Eisenhower Street in College Station.
I think that there is a bank or something. It's just
off of University on Eisenhower Street. I think
there's a bank or something right now that would
back up to that little house. And this was a little
bitty house. That house would fit in this room.
What did she do while you were taking classes? Did
she work? No, she didn't work. When we went back the
second time, we had a child, my oldest daughter.
So she had a little bitty baby. I remember one time
in February, it was College Station. cold,
raining, miserable February. And we lived in this
little wooden house. And her mother came down. And
Margaret was just crawling. just barely
crawling, maybe pulling up a little bit. And she
was in that cold, damp house, barefoot, with
nothing but a diaper on. And her mama drove up in her
brand new, big, long Cadillac automobile and came
in and said, jumped on us and up that child. Where's
the child going to die? What do you think? Let me get
some shoes on. She outgrew her shoes, and we don't
have any money, and we can't buy shoes.
She's just going to have to suck it up. Ooh, that
woman was mad. Well, that kid had shoes that
afternoon, I'll guarantee you. Had everything
that she could buy in the city of Bryan. Oh, she got
mad at me, and she talked bad, too. Was there any
kind of social activity for student wives?
Nothing special. No. There was no student wives
organization.
The interesting thing is there were a lot of us who
knew each other and who became friends. And so,
again, on football weekends, you would assemble
at one or the other houses. As I say, our entire
house was about a big group. And yet we could get
those girls with those great big dresses and you'd
just put them around the walls, you understand.
because of big old dresses and we could get five or
six of them in
there let's see let's go back to student
organizations uh singing cadets were they saying
cadets cadets were there the aggie players were
there the uh there were there were organizations
from almost each department, plus clubs of all
types. What were hometown clubs for? It was really
to cushion for the newcomers. More than a bunch of
hometown people getting together across the
hometown. It was a cushion for the kid who's just
coming down there. Whether he's entered as a
freshman, sophomore, junior, senior, it doesn't
matter. Was it a ride-back-home organization
also? I guess to a degree. Most of us just went over
by the Safeway store and hitchhiked. Describe
that routine. I always hitchhiked to the north.
And you got... You've got to ride up to the Safeway
store in Bride, which is where Highway 21 crosses
6. How would you get, though, from the campus to
there? The best way you could. However, if you
hitchhike, you didn't accept a ride past that
hitchhike point. If somebody says, well, I'm
going all the way to Fort Worth, I'd have to say,
well, thank you very much, sir, but you need to let
me out there, and I bet there's one of those guys who
wants to go to Fort Worth. And that was just the
etiquette of hitchhiking. Now, what did you wear?
Uniform. That'll get you right. Did you put your
thumb up? Of course. Only one person. There may be
20 people standing on the corner, but one person
holds his thumb. All right. And who got to be first
in line? The man holding his thumb. And then the
next man in line is the man. But what made him first?
Because he was there first. Rank had nothing to do
with it. No, rank had nothing to do with it. Did you
all drop handles while you were waiting? Yes.
Okay. And was it normal for the car to stop, the
vehicle to stop and give only one person a ride? No,
I've seen the person by themselves take three,
four, you know, whatever they could get in the car.
Cars were big in those days. Now, you were coming,
say, to Fort Worth. Where did you catch a ride out of
Fort Worth to go back? Was there a special place?
Yes, it was on the south side of Fort Worth on
Hemphill Avenue, and I can't tell you exactly
where it was, but it was an accepted, appointed
place. I could probably drive down there and find
it. By and large, were the only people standing at
that place Aggies? Yes. Do you remember any
goofy... humorous hitchhiking experiences? Not
for me. I always got good rides. I never did get with
any weird people. Never did run into anything like
that. It just so happened I didn't. Did you ever
hear of anybody who had a truly bad experience? Oh,
yeah. I've heard of them who would get with drunks
and get scared out of their wits and so forth. That
was, I suppose, the most common thing. I got a ride.
This guy was so drunk he couldn't stay on the road.
But you don't remember anybody being
robbed? No. No. No. Don't know of anything. Let's
see. Other organizations. RVs? Oh, sure. Ross
Wilde here has been there forever. Was that
important? They were one of those elite
organizations, and those were the dedicated
military people. Single? Not married? Oh, yes.
Not married. Single. Dedicated. They were there.
They didn't care so much about the degree. They
wanted the commission. Did you all use the phrase,
gun home? I don't remember the use of it. We used the
phrase, you know, he's a classic courtier. As you
get on to be a senior, a lot of us... As a matter of
fact, during my junior year was one of those times I
had to drop out. Simply didn't have any money. And
so I had to get out and go to work. And because I was
forced to break, Korea is just over. And because I
was forced to break of my service, The Army didn't
want any more second lieutenants and they didn't
find any reason in the world to break the contract.
And so they did. So you're not in the Corps all of...
No. And again, it was a condition of the times. The
Army was looking to get rid of lieutenants. They
didn't want any more lieutenants. It was for the
convenience of both of us that the contract was
terminated. What was the most prestigious
student leadership positions? Well, the
President's Student Body and Yellow Leader.
Those were the... That was bigger than Corps
Commander? Corps Commander was important to the
Corps, but again, let's look back at post-World
War II and post-Korea. The civilian population
was growing rapidly. People who did not, although
corps was required of high school graduates
entering as freshmen, anybody with a military
record was not required to go into the corps and
they didn't want any more army. So those people
were increasing in volume and so it was
increasingly I'm moving to its position, I guess,
that it has achieved today, where it's important.
But to the overall, it's not as important,
probably, as the political office is. What can you
share, any information you know from any source
about secret fraternities?
One of my roommates was a member of the True Texans.
So it did exist? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. About how many
members were there? Fewer than 100. At one time?
Yes. Oh, okay. Yes. And he was a member. And we
kidded him about it. It wasn't a big deal to me. Bob
was a member of it. And so what? Bob was politically
active.
And so it existed. What was their purpose? Social.
They weren't trying to. They had no agenda that I
was aware of. And certainly, I was within arm's
length of it. Were they trying to get their members
involved? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. They wanted their
people to be the political people. That's what I
thought. Yes. They made sure that their people
were running for the elective offices and they
made sure that they made the signs, gave the
support, blah, blah, blah. And 90% of that is what
name do you recognize, and that's who you vote for.
You didn't listen to speeches and decide this is
the best man for it. It was recognition, which they
knew, so they flooded and generally achieved
that. So they had some success. Oh, yes. And did
that include Corps Commander and Head yell
leader? I think it got so that, yes, it did include
the yell leader. But I think it, because the corps
commander was selected internally by the
administration, it was less there, although my
roommate was an adjutant on corps staff. At what
point in his four years, as far as you know, did he
become a member? His junior year. As far as you
know, was that when they were selected? Did it
matter Army, Air Force, Corps? Or not Corps.
It happened mostly within the Corps. His car for me
and went off in my car, which is air conditioned.
And he said, your car needs gas. I knew that when he
left. And he's appearing right now in Henry V.
He's rehearsing As You Like It. They're doing
Henry V and rehearsing As You Like It. They'll
follow Henry V as you like it. As far as you know, did
many other people know who were members of the TTs?
I think everybody who was close to a member knew
more than one member. When it blew up, when the
thing blew up at the university. When was that? At
that time I was, at that time my roommate was the
editor of the battalion. His name was Frank
Menezes. And when it first came out was that
semester that Frank and I were living together.
And Frank really said, you know, there's a good
story here, but he didn't think it was worth
anything. It became, it became a big deal for one
reason or another to the administration. So this
is the early 50s? Yes. It became became a big deal to
the administration.
And was probably a bigger deal to them. The back,
Frank really, you know, it was page three stuff. We
could get weak. When it was quiet on the campus,
that might be page three and Frank and I would sit
and make up things to go on page one. Did anything
happen to the team members? Yes. Bob was on core
staff and he was busted. As were all of them. yes
they were all busted because that was a prohibited
to have a secret because of the secrecy and as far as
anybody knew how long had the tts been in existence
i have no idea but it's been a long time i don't know
either i think it was was there any other as far as
you know there was none other than i was aware of
have you ever heard anybody talk about the
stickers apparently back in maybe even in the 20s
there was And the name may have come from the word
swastika. No brown shirts. No, no, no. It
predates. Predates that? Yes. In the 20s, you see,
the Nazi party didn't. That's right. The Navajo
symbol for friendship was the swastika. And if you
look through some early 20s, Longhorn,
yearbooks, you'll see a cage or a swastika? Here
and there. Here and there. I was not aware of that.
All right. So do you know whether the TTs existed
after the early 50s? They busted everybody, but
the organization being independent, to the best
of my knowledge, continued to be secret and they
continued to associate with one another. I don't
think they had formal bylaws. I don't think they
had, I think they had loose group agendas. And I
think that that continued. I don't believe that,
at least for the time I was there, I don't, they
injured them as individuals and the hope was, I
guess, to put fear into it. But, and dissuade other
people from doing this. But as long as I was there, I
think they existed. All right, let's go back now to
your first year or two. You didn't have a car. About
how often did you go back and forth from home and
how? I went home for Christmas. Thanksgiving? No.
Really? No, but my freshman year, I think we played
a game, College Station. So I didn't go home. But I
went home for Christmas. And I didn't go home that
much. I personally didn't go home that much. Do you
remember having a date your freshman year?
No. What about sophomore year?
Not many. How did you get a date? Usually through a
friend.
He knows somebody in his hometown.
Like this special young lady? He has a girlfriend
at home and she has a friend. Like this special
young lady who would mean so much to you. Did you
know her? How did you meet her? That way. A friend of
mine. had a had an aggie friend yes and she had a
friend and uh it was court trip and uh that's how to
fort worth no portrait actually oh okay i
described the routine of the court trip either to
any of the four oh you'd leave leave what what time
and how did you get there well you got there the best
way you could For you, what was that? Well, that was
hitchhiking. Again, not uncommon. Simply not
uncommon. You got there as best you could. You
usually were able to get there by Friday night. And
you then
tried to find a place to stay. If somebody had a
room, that usually meant 30 people could sleep,
you see. Then there was the parade in the morning,
and the game, and then everybody started, if you
didn't have a date, you started trying to get out
there, because there's a hell of a lot of people
going to be hitchhiking going back. Now,
usually within your outfit you had two or three
guys from the big cities, or maybe four or five or
more. And they had access to automobile once they
got to the city. And that was how you got around. You
stayed at homes, you stayed a little bit of
everywhere. Can you describe how you met this
young lady then? All right. My friend was going
with a girl from Fort Worth and she had this friend.
And we, he said, I can get, he arranged the date. I
don't know whether it was at my insistence or at
his, I don't remember. But at any rate, the date
would be in Dallas, and she was going to TCU, but she
was going to stay with a friend at SMU. And so we met,
and we went to the game, and we were going out after
the game, and I don't remember we were going
somewhere. You're a sophomore? No, I'm a junior.
Yeah, I'm a junior. And
we had a good time. We enjoyed each other. We had a
lot of fun and decided we wanted to see each other
some more. It was a typical weekend. She got back a
little bit late to the SMU dorm, but managed to get
in through a window which was Everybody used it. It
was the highway even for the girls that lived in the
dorm. And then we met the next day and came to Fort
Worth. And I met her parents who lived across the
street from the girl the other guy was going with.
And they invited me back the next weekend for some
purpose, which escapes me. I don't remember, but
it was something significant. And so I came back
the next weekend and stayed with her at her home.
And then I always had a place to stay. Did the Aggies
in that game, that first day, did the Aggies score
any touchdowns? So did this guy get to kiss his date
at the first game? I'm sure we must have. I don't
know that for sure because that was not during
A&M's high departure period. And Kyle Rook was
playing for the Mustangs in that era, I think.
That's about 51 or 52. No, it's worse than that.
It's Don Meredith.
So did we score anything? I don't know. I wouldn't
be absolutely certain about that. Let's see.
Meredith and Bob Lilly was playing for TCU, so it
wasn't a good time to be an Aggie. We didn't win a lot
in those days. Campus characters, was Pinky
around then? Pinky was around, not what Pinky was
later on, but Pinky was on campus, yes. Lou, old
Army Lou? Lou, Lou, you bet. Trade with Lou, he's
right with you, yes sir. Lou, he helped everybody.
Yes, he bought books from Lou, because you get them
cheaper, Lou's, he'd always buy back. Were there
any off-campus events in the United States or in
the world during your student years that you
remember caused you concern?
Like was there anything going on in the Far East
during that time? Well, Korea existed during that
period of time, and that was of concern to us of
cannon fodder age. But that's really all that was
going on in the world that was of concern was Korea.
But you were aware of your draft status? Oh, yes.
Oh, yes. Yes, you knew absolutely. You had a
student deferment. Did that have any
encouragement to you to stay in school and keep
making your grades? No, that was not significant
to me. Yes, that would not have made a difference to
me. There weren't any assassinations or
bombings? No, no big deals like that. Sure, atomic
weapons tests were going on, but we didn't think
anything of that. That was just an interesting
thing. Were there any great personalities that
visited A&M during your days? Well, of course,
we didn't have a president on campus during my four
years. We had a governor.
I think we did a parade for the governor, but what
the hell do you see from the parade? What was his
name? I don't remember. Shivers? Shivers may have
been governor. I don't recall. But we would have,
yes, the Corps would have passed and reviewed for
him, but that would be about as close as you got.
What were the most popular student indulgences at
the time? Beer. Where'd you get it? out of Brazos
County and bring it in. Where? Generally, just as
quick as you can get across the Brazos River. And
what was... Farm Road 60 going to Snoop, was it
called Whiskey Bridge? Yes, yes, Whiskey Bridge.
But beer was the big thing because it was cheap. Do
you remember what label, what variety? Oh, yes.
You drank Schlitz and Southern Select and Pearl.
Grand Prize? I wasn't a Grand Prize drinker.
You're not an old man. No. Oh, is that right? John
Lindsay's. John Lindsay. Sarah. Sarah. Sarah's.
Was hard liquor still there, Uncle Ed's? Yes. Can
you describe Uncle Ed's? No, I'm sorry, just
another place. Nothing outstanding stands out.
And was there a gravel pit or a... Clay pits. Clay
pits. That's where you went to do your drinking and
you could swim in the clay pits. Where was it? down
Welburn Road a little ways and off toward the
river. And it was exactly that. It was old where it
had been dug out and the water filled back in and
gave a nice place to swim. And away from everybody
where you weren't hassled for drinking beer and
browsing. Did male and female ever go out there?
Oh, yeah. Did they wear bathing suits, or was there
sometimes skinny dipping? Well, I never did see a
girl skinny dipping. I would have remembered
that. I never did see girls, I'm sure. And I didn't
myself. I wore swimsuits and plate bits. Smoking.
What were people smoking? Tobacco. What kind of,
what labels? Oh. Bell Mel. And the old
traditionals never were big. Camels and Lucky
Stripes and so forth were never big use things. It
was usually the lighter tobaccos that were
important. And the one name comes to mind, I guess
it's because that's what I smoked. And do you
remember anybody chewing or dipping snuff? Few
people dipped snuff, not much chewing. Nobody
smoked a pipe. None of the students.
Not people that I was familiar with. Did you all
even know the word marijuana? Marijuana, that's
interesting. Marijuana was not illegal. And
marijuana was not something anyone who is anybody
would